# Assignment 3

Name your program Assignment3.java

Have the program output your first and last name

Email me your Assignment3.java file. Send this as an attachment to my email address.

Your program will read the input file “input1.txt  Download input1.txt” and store these values in an array. The file contains 1000 doubles. 

NOTE: Your program can assume the input file is always 1000 items long, it doesn’t have to deal with an input file that is too small or too large gracefully for this assignment.  

See Lecture 3 TestTextFile.java for an example of reading from a text file.

Your program will calculate and output the mean (average) for these values. Reminder, the mean is the sum off all values divided by the number of values.  For example:

The mean of the values 2.0, 4.0, 2.0, 6.0, 8.0 is:

(2.0+4.0+2.0+6.0+8.0)/5.0 = 22.0/5.0 = 4.4

Your program should calculate and output the mean as a double

Your program will calculate and output the standard deviation for these values. The standard deviation is defined as:

`S(x[n]) = sqrt(Σ(x[i] - μ)^2/(n - 1))`

HINT: To code this, I suggest you use a loop for the summation.  Each time through the loop calculate the difference between that element in the array and the mean.  Square this difference and add it to a variable holding the sum each time through the loop.

HINT 2: There is a square root method in the Math class…Javadoc to the rescue!  For squaring, there is a method to raise a base to a power or you could just multiply the number by itself.

Your program will output all 1000 of the numbers, 10 per line

Next to each number, output the following:

If the number is greater than the mean, output “>”

If the number is less than the mean, output “<”

If this number is equal to the mean, output “=” (probably won’t get any of these!)

Your program will calculate and output how many values are greater than the mean and how many are less than the mean.